.TH "Midas Elog Functions (el_xxx)" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Midas Elog Functions (el_xxx) \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBINT\fP \fBel_submit\fP (int run, const char *author, const char *type, const char *syst, const char *subject, const char *text, const char *reply_to, const char *encoding, const char *afilename1, char *buffer1, \fBINT\fP buffer_size1, const char *afilename2, char *buffer2, \fBINT\fP buffer_size2, const char *afilename3, char *buffer3, \fBINT\fP buffer_size3, char *tag, \fBINT\fP tag_size)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
dox 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBINT\fP el_submit (int run, const char * author, const char * type, const char * syst, const char * subject, const char * text, const char * reply_to, const char * encoding, const char * afilename1, char * buffer1, \fBINT\fP buffer_size1, const char * afilename2, char * buffer2, \fBINT\fP buffer_size2, const char * afilename3, char * buffer3, \fBINT\fP buffer_size3, char * tag, \fBINT\fP tag_size)"dox Submit an ELog entry. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIrun\fP Run Number. 
.br
\fIauthor\fP Message author. 
.br
\fItype\fP Message type. 
.br
\fIsyst\fP Message system. 
.br
\fIsubject\fP Subject. 
.br
\fItext\fP Message text. 
.br
\fIreply_to\fP In reply to this message. 
.br
\fIencoding\fP Text encoding, either HTML or plain. 
.br
\fIafilename1\fP File name of attachment. 
.br
\fIbuffer1\fP File contents. 
.br
\fIbuffer_size1\fP Size of buffer in bytes. 
.br
\fIafilename2\fP File name of attachment. 
.br
\fIbuffer2\fP File contents. 
.br
\fIbuffer_size2\fP Size of buffer in bytes. 
.br
\fIafilename3\fP File name of attachment. 
.br
\fIbuffer3\fP File contents. 
.br
\fIbuffer_size3\fP Size of buffer in bytes. 
.br
\fItag\fP If given, edit existing message. 
.br
\fItag_size\fP Maximum size of tag. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
EL_SUCCESS 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 81 of file elog.c.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Midas from the source code.
