.TH "F_Utilities_List" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
F_Utilities_List \- List of MIDAS Utilities 
  The MIDAS package provides the following utilities (tasks). For more information on each utility, follow the link.
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBData Analyzers\fP (MIDAS Analyzer, ROOT, ROODY, ROOTANA)
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdio\fP direct I/O driver utility
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfrontend\fP frontend utility
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhvedit\fP High Voltage Editor and GUI
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlazylogger\fP data archiver
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmchart\fP assembles data for stripchart
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmcnaf\fP Camac hardware access
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmdump\fP display contents of event banks
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmevb\fP event builder application
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmh2spl\fP import history files into SQL database
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmhdump\fP display history events
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmhist\fP history data retriever
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmhttpd\fP web-based run control and monitoring
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmlogger\fP data logger
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmserver\fP remote server
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBm[lx]speaker\fP audible messaging
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmstat\fP monitor and display
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmtape\fP tape manipulation
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBodbedit\fP ODB editor and run controller.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBrmidas\fP ROOT application for histogram/run control
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstripchart\fP graphical stripchart data display
.PP
.PP
  
.SH "Common Parameters to MIDAS Utilities"
.PP
Each of the above utilities define a number of input \fBparameters\fP (click on the utilities listed above for details); however they all have the following common \fBparameters\fP:
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
[\fB-h\fP <hostname> ] Specifies the \fBMIDAS host\fP to connect to when connecting to an experiment running on a \fBremote\fP \fBhost\fP. \fB'hostname'\fP must be a valid IP host name. This option supersedes the default hostname given by the environment variable \fBMIDAS_SERVER_HOST\fP , if defined. Note that the \fBmserver\fP utility must be running on the remote host in this case. If the experiment is running on the local host, this argument need not be supplied.
.PP
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
[\fB-e\fP <exptname> ] Specifies the \fBMIDAS experiment\fP to connect to (where \fBmultiple experiments\fP are defined on the MIDAS host. This option supersedes the default experiment name given by the environment variable \fBMIDAS_EXPT_NAME\fP , if defined. If multiple experiments are defined, unless \fBMIDAS_EXPT_NAME\fP is defined or this argument is supplied, the application will request the experiment name.
.PP
.PP
If the environment variable \fBMIDAS_DIR\fP (i.e. single default experiment) is defined, both the above arguments and environment variables will be superceded.
.PP

.br
   
