.TH "FAQ" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
FAQ \- SECTION 12: Frequently Asked Questions 

.br
  
.br
 Feel free to ask questions of one of us ( \fCStefan Ritt \fP, \fCPierre-Andre Amaudruz\fP) or visit the \fCMIDAS Forum \fP
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBGeneral questions\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBQuestions about custom web pages\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBQuestions about CAMAC\fP
.PP
.SH "General questions"
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "1." 4
\fB How can I find anything in this manual? \fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
See \fBNavigating this document\fP
.PP
.PP

.IP "2." 4
\fB Where does the MIDAS log file reside?\fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
See \fBMIDAS Log file\fP
.PP
.PP

.IP "3." 4
\fB How do I protected my experiment from being controlled by aliens?\fP
.PP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Every experiment may have a dedicated password for accessing the experiment from the web browser . This is setup through the \fBodbedit\fP program with the command \fBwebpass\fP (see \fBHow to Setup Web Access Restriction\fP). This will create a \fBSecurity\fP tree under \fB/Experiment\fP with a new key \fB Web Password\fP with the encrypted word. By default MIDAS allows Full Read Access to all the MIDAS Web pages. Only when modification of a MIDAS field the web password will be requested. The password is stared as a cookie in the target web client for 24 hours.
.PP
.PP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Other options for protection are described in \fBHow to Setup Client Access Restrictions\fP which gives access to the ODB to dedicated hosts or programs.
.PP
.PP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBProxy Access to mhttpd\fP is also supported, where the experiment can be securely accessed through a firewall, or configured to allow a secure SSL connection to the proxy.
.PP
.PP

.IP "4." 4
\fB How do I prevent the user from modifying ODB values while the run is in progress?\fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
By creating the particular /Experiment/Lock when running ODB subtree , you can include symbolic links to any ODB field which needs to be set to \fBRead Only\fP while the \fBrun state\fP is 'running'. See \fBLock when Running\fP . 
.br

.br

.PP
.PP

.IP "5." 4
\fB Is there a way to invoke my own scripts from the web?\fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Yes, by creating the ODB tree  /Script every entry in that tree will be available on the Web status page with the name of the key (see \fBDefining Script Buttons on the main Status Page\fP ). Each key entry is then composed with a list of ODB fields (or links) starting with the executable command followed by as many arguments as you wish to be passed to the script. See \fBThe ODB /Script tree\fP. Scripts can also be invoked from a Custom page (see \fBODB /CustomScript tree\fP ). 
.br

.br
 
.PP

.IP "6." 4
\fB I've seen the ODB prompt displaying the run state, how do you do that?\fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Modify the \fB/System/prompt\fP field. The 'S' is the trick. 
.PP
.nf
 Fri> odb -e bnmr1 -h isdaq01
 [host:expt:Stopped]/cd /System/
 [host:expt:Stopped]/System>ls
 Clients
 Client Notify                   0
 Prompt                          [%h:%e:%S]%p
 Tmp
 [host:expt:Stopped]/System
 [host:expt:Stopped]/Systemset prompt [%h:%e:%S]%p>
 [host:expt:Stopped]/System>ls
 Clients
 Client Notify                   0
 Prompt                          [%h:%e:%S]%p>
 Tmp
 [host:expt:Stopped]/System>set Prompt [%h:%e:%s]%p>
 [host:expt:S]/System>set Prompt [%h:%e:%S]%p>
 [host:expt:Stopped]/System>     

.fi
.PP
 
.br

.br
 
.PP

.IP "7." 4
\fB I've setup the alarm on one parameter in ODB but I can't make it trigger? \fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
The alarm scheme works only under \fBONLINE\fP. See \fBODB /RunInfo Tree\fP for \fB Online Mode\fP. This flag may have been turned off due to analysis replay using this ODB. Set this key back to 1 to get the alarm to work again. 
.br

.br
 
.PP

.IP "8." 4
\fB How do I extend an array in ODB? \fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
When listing the array from ODB with the -l switch, you get a column indicating the index of the listed array. You can extend the array by setting the array value at the new index. The intermediate indices will be fill with the default value depending on the type of the array. This can easly corrected by using the wildcard to access all or a range of indices. 
.PP
.nf
[local:midas:S]/>mkdir tmp
[local:midas:S]/>cd tmp
[local:midas:S]/tmp>create int number
[local:midas:S]/tmp>create string foo
String length [32]: 
[local:midas:S]/tmp>ls -l
Key name                        Type    #Val  Size  Last Opn Mode Value
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
number                          INT     1     4     >99d 0   RWD  0
foo                             STRING  1     32    1s   0   RWD  
[local:midas:S]/tmp>set number[4] 5
[local:midas:S]/tmp>set foo[3]
[local:midas:S]/tmp>ls -l
Key name                        Type    #Val  Size  Last Opn Mode Value
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
number                          INT     5     4     12s  0   RWD  
                                        [0]             0
                                        [1]             0
                                        [2]             0
                                        [3]             0
                                        [4]             5
foo                             STRING  4     32    2s   0   RWD  
                                        [0]             
                                        [1]             
                                        [2]             
                                        [3]             
[local:midas:S]/tmp>set number[1..3] 9
[local:midas:S]/tmp>set foo[2] 'A default string'
[local:midas:S]/tmp>ls -l
Key name                        Type    #Val  Size  Last Opn Mode Value
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
number                          INT     5     4     26s  0   RWD  
                                        [0]             0
                                        [1]             9
                                        [2]             9
                                        [3]             9
                                        [4]             5
foo                             STRING  4     32    3s   0   RWD  
                                        [0]             
                                        [1]             
                                        [2]             A default string
                                        [3]             

.fi
.PP
 
.PP

.PP

.br
.PP

.br
 
.SH "Questions about custom web pages"
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "1." 4
\fB Can I compose my own experimental web page?\fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
You can create your own html or javascript code using your favourite HMTL editor. See \fBFeatures available on custom pages\fP . By including custom MIDAS HTML Tags or custom \fBJavascript built-in functions\fP , you will have access to any field in the ODB of your experiment as well as the standard buttons for start/stop and page switch. See \fBmhttpd\fP , \fBCustom pages\fP. 
.br

.br

.PP
.PP

.IP "2." 4
\fB Is there any way to show the cursor position on my custom web page so I can easily place the fills and labels? \fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Yes. Using the \fBJavascript built-in function\fP \fBgetMouseXY\fP and the HTML 'img' tag with an id of 'refimg'. See \fBDisplay mouse position\fP for details.
.PP
.PP

.PP
.PP

.br
.PP

.br
 
.SH "Questions about CAMAC"
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "1." 4
\fB Why does the CAMAC frontend generate a core dump (linux)? \fP
.IP "  \(bu" 4
If you're not using a Linux driver for the CAMAC access, you need to start the CAMAC frontend application through the task launcher first. See \fBdio - direct I/O driver\fP or \fBmcnaf - CAMAC hardware access\fP. This task launcher will grant you access permission to the IO port mapped to your CAMAC interface. 
.br

.br

.PP
.PP

.IP "2." 4
How do I ...
.IP "  \(bu" 4
... 
.br

.br
 
.PP

.PP
 
.br
  
.br
 
