.TH "FE_ODB_equipment_tree" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
FE_ODB_equipment_tree \- The ODB /Equipment tree 

.br
  
.PP

.br
.PP
Every \fBfrontend\fP or other client that contains an \fBEquipment Declaration\fP will, when run for the first time, create a entry (i.e. a sub-tree) in the ODB under the /Equipment tree. The \fBname\fP of a particular sub-tree (i.e. the name of that Equipment) is taken from the Equipment Declaration in the client(s). The following example shows the /Equipment tree of an experiment where a large number of Equipments have been defined:
.PP
Example: 
.PP
.nf
$odbedit
[local:midas:S]/>ls -lt /Equipment 
Key name                        Type    #Val  Size  Last Opn Mode Value
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
HistoCheck                      DIR
DSpecCheck                      DIR
HistoPoll                       DIR
HistoEOR                        DIR
DSpecEOR                        DIR
Scaler                          DIR
SuconMagnet                     DIR
TempBridge                      DIR
Cryostat                        DIR
Meters                          DIR
RFSource                        DIR
DSPec                           DIR

.fi
.PP
.PP
Each of these 'Equipment' directories contain several subdirectories (i.e. 'Common','Variables' and 'Statistics') which the system creates by default.
.PP
These sub-trees will be referred to as e.g. /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Common where the name of the particular equipment is to be substituted into \fI'<equipment-name>'\fP (e.g. /Equipment/scaler/Common).
.PP
An example of an Equipment called 'Scaler' is shown below: 
.PP
.nf
[local:S]ls -l -r /equipment/scaler
Key name                        Type    #Val  Size  Last Opn Mode Value
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scaler                          DIR
    Common                      DIR
        Event ID                WORD    1     2     16h  0   RWD  1
        Trigger mask            WORD    1     2     16h  0   RWD  256
        Buffer                  STRING  1     32    16h  0   RWD  SYSTEM
        Type                    INT     1     4     16h  0   RWD  1
        Source                  INT     1     4     16h  0   RWD  0
        Format                  STRING  1     8     16h  0   RWD  MIDAS
        Enabled                 BOOL    1     4     16h  0   RWD  y
        Read on                 INT     1     4     16h  0   RWD  377
        Period                  INT     1     4     16h  0   RWD  1000
        Event limit             DOUBLE  1     8     16h  0   RWD  0
        Num subevents           DWORD   1     4     16h  0   RWD  0

        Log history             INT     1     4     16h  0   RWD  0
        Frontend host           STRING  1     32    16h  0   RWD  midtis03
        Frontend name           STRING  1     32    16h  0   RWD  feLTNO
        Frontend file name      STRING  1     256   16h  0   RWD  C:\online\sc_ltno.c
    Variables                   DIR
        SCLR                    DWORD   6     4     1s   0   RWD  
                                        [0]             0
                                        [1]             0
                                        [2]             0
                                        [3]             0
                                        [4]             0
                                        [5]             0
        RATE                    FLOAT   6     4     1s   0   RWD  
                                        [0]             0
                                        [1]             0
                                        [2]             0

                                        [3]             0
                                        [4]             0
                                        [5]             0
    Statistics                  DIR
        Events sent             DOUBLE  1     8     1s   0   RWDE 370
        Events per sec.         DOUBLE  1     8     1s   0   RWDE 0.789578
        kBytes per sec.         DOUBLE  1     8     1s   0   RWDE 0.0678543

.fi
.PP
.SH "The ODB /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Common subtree"
.PP
The /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Common subtree contains system information, which is derived from the \fBEquipment Declaration\fP for that Equipment. 
.br
 Every time the frontend is initialized, it \fBcopies the equipment settings to the ODB\fP under /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Common 
.br
.PP
Keys in the ODB /Equipment/Common subtree   Key  Type
.br
  Explanation 
.PP
<equipment-name>  
.br
  
.br
  DIR
.br
  \fBName of this equipment\fP  
.PP

.br
  Common  
.br
  DIR
.br
  Subdirectory created when the frontend is first run  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Event ID  WORD
.br
  \fBUnique Event ID\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Trigger mask  WORD
.br
  \fBTrigger Mask\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Buffer  WORD
.br
  \fBBuffer\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Type  WORD
.br
  \fBType\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Source  WORD
.br
  \fBInterrupt Source\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Format  WORD
.br
  \fBData Format\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Enabled  WORD
.br
  \fBEquipment Enabled\fP. May be changed during run-time (\fBHot-linked\fP).  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Read On  WORD
.br
  \fBRead-On Flag(s)\fP. May be changed during run-time (\fBHot-linked\fP).  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Period  WORD
.br
  \fBTime interval\fP. May be changed during run-time (\fBHot-linked\fP).  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Event limit  WORD
.br
  \fBEvent limit\fP. May be changed during run-time (\fBHot-linked\fP).  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Num Subevents  WORD
.br
  \fBNumber of sub-events\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Log history  WORD
.br
  \fBEnable history system\fP  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Frontend host  WORD
.br
   Name of the computer running the frontend that defines this equipment  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Frontend name  WORD
.br
   Name of the frontend that defines this equipment  
.PP

.br
  
.br
  Frontend file name  WORD
.br
   Name of the file that contains the frontend code  
.PP
Above: meaning of keys in the ODB subtree /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Common 
.PP
 
.SS "Hot-linked Equipment/Common parameters"
\fBHot-links\fP to the /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Common area are created, allowing some of the settings to be changed during run-time, rather than having to edit, recompile and reload the frontend. These settings are listed below: 
.br
 Equipment Settings hot-linked in ODB
.br
   ** \fBEnabled\fP flag   ** \fBRead-On (RO_XX)\fP flags   ** \fBPeriod\fP   ** \fBEvent Limit\fP  
.PP
.PP
Modification from the ODB is \fBimmediately\fP reflected into the frontend, which will act upon the new setting.
.SH "The ODB /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Variables subtree"
.PP
The ODB Variables subtree contains the equipment data \fBif enabled\fP by either the \fBRO_ODB\fP flag or the \fBHistory flag\fP. This means that it contains the data banks for an event. The data will be updated when the equipment read-out routine is run, i.e. when an event is sent. If the \fBRO_ODB\fP flag is \fBnot\fP set for the equipment, the Variables subtree will be empty.
.PP
The /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Variables (if present) are displayed on the \fBmhttpd\fP \fBEquipment page\fP .
.SH "The ODB /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Statistics subtree"
.PP
The ODB Statistics subtree contains equipment system statistics information such as number of event taken, the event rate and the data rate.
.SH "The ODB /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Settings subtree"
.PP
The ODB Settings subtree contains any equipment-specific information that the user may wish to place there. 
.br
 The following example is for the 'Epicslog' equipment for the BNMR experiment at TRIUMF. The 'settings' sub-tree contains a list of the EPICS variables that the user wishes to read out, including the information into the data stream.
.PP
.PP
.nf
[local:bnmr:S]/>ls /Equipment/epicslog/Settings/
epics OK                        1
n_epics_logged                  4
epics_path
                                BNMR:HVBIAS:POS:RDVOL
                                BNMR:HVBIAS:NEG:RDVOL
                                ITW:BIAS:RDVOL
                                ILE2:BIAS15:RDVOL
                                BNMR:HVBIAS:NEG:RDVOL
                                BNMR:HVBIAS:NEG:RDVOL
.fi
.PP
.PP
An important feature of the Settings sub-tree is only active when using \fBmhttpd\fP (ignored by \fBodbedit\fP), which is the display of data from /Equipment/<equipment-names>/variables sub-tree on the \fBEquipment page\fP , together with the corresponding information defined in a 'Names' array. See the mhttpd \fBEquipment page\fP for details.
.PP
In the case of a \fBSlow Control System\fP equipment, an extended tree is structure is automatically created by the system, which will be displayed on the mhttpd \fBEquipment page\fP - see \fBNamed data from an Equipment with one bank\fP .
.PP

.br
   
