.TH "System Functions (ss_xxx)" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
System Functions (ss_xxx) \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBINT\fP \fBss_system\fP (char *command)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "midas_thread_t \fBss_thread_create\fP (\fBINT\fP(*thread_func)(void *), void *param)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBINT\fP \fBss_thread_kill\fP (midas_thread_t thread_id)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDWORD\fP \fBss_millitime\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDWORD\fP \fBss_time\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBINT\fP \fBss_sleep\fP (\fBINT\fP millisec)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
dox 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBDWORD\fP ss_millitime ()"dox Returns the actual time in milliseconds with an arbitrary origin. This time may only be used to calculate relative times.
.PP
Overruns in the 32 bit value don't hurt since in a subtraction calculated with 32 bit accuracy this overrun cancels (you may think about!).. 
.PP
.nf
...
DWORD start, stop:
start = ss_millitime();
  < do operations >
stop = ss_millitime();
printf('Operation took %1.3lf seconds\n',(stop-start)/1000.0);
...

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
millisecond time stamp. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2855 of file system.c.
.PP
Referenced by bm_check_buffers(), bm_cleanup_buffer_locked(), bm_open_buffer(), bm_wait_for_free_space(), check_polled_events(), close_buffers(), cm_cleanup(), cm_get_watchdog_info(), cm_set_watchdog_params(), cm_shutdown(), cm_transition1(), db_open_database(), hv_demand(), hv_idle(), hv_ramp(), hv_read(), initialize_equipment(), rotate_wheel(), sc_thread(), scan_fragment(), scheduler(), send_event(), and tr_stop().
.SS "\fBINT\fP ss_sleep (\fBINT\fP millisec)"dox Suspend the calling process for a certain time.
.PP
The function is similar to the sleep() function, but has a resolution of one milliseconds. Under VxWorks the resolution is 1/60 of a second. It uses the socket select() function with a time-out. See examples in \fBss_time()\fP 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fImillisec\fP Time in milliseconds to sleep. Zero means infinite (until another process calls ss_wake) 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
SS_SUCCESS 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 3093 of file system.c.
.PP
Referenced by bm_wait_for_free_space(), cm_shutdown(), device_driver(), initialize_equipment(), main(), mesadc32_MSCF16_GainGet(), mesadc32_MSCF16_GainSet(), mesadc32_MSCF16_IDC(), mesadc32_MSCF16_RCon(), rb_get_rp(), rb_get_wp(), rcWait(), read_trigger_event(), readout_enable(), readout_thread(), register_equipment(), and sc_thread().
.SS "\fBINT\fP ss_system (char * command)"dox Execute command in a separate process, close all open file descriptors invoke ss_exec() and ignore pid. 
.PP
.nf
{ ...
  char cmd[256];
  sprintf(cmd,'%s %s %i %s/%s %1.3lf %d',lazy.commandAfter,
     lazy.backlabel, lazyst.nfiles, lazy.path, lazyst.backfile,
     lazyst.file_size/1024.0/1024.0, blockn);
  cm_msg(MINFO,'Lazy','Exec post file write script:%s',cmd);
  ss_system(cmd);
}
...

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIcommand\fP Command to execute. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
SS_SUCCESS or ss_exec() return code 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1865 of file system.c.
.PP
Referenced by al_check(), cm_transition1(), and scan_fragment().
.SS "midas_thread_t ss_thread_create (\fBINT\fP(*)(void *) thread_func, void * param)"dox Creates and returns a new thread of execution.
.PP
Note the difference when calling from vxWorks versus Linux and Windows. The parameter pointer for a vxWorks call is a VX_TASK_SPAWN structure, whereas for Linux and Windows it is a void pointer. Early versions returned SS_SUCCESS or SS_NO_THREAD instead of thread ID.
.PP
Example for VxWorks 
.PP
.nf
...
VX_TASK_SPAWN tsWatch = {'Watchdog', 100, 0, 2000,  (int) pDevice, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 ,0};
midas_thread_t thread_id = ss_thread_create((void *) taskWatch, &tsWatch);
if (thread_id == 0) {
  printf('cannot spawn taskWatch\n');
}
...

.fi
.PP
 Example for Linux 
.PP
.nf
...
midas_thread_t thread_id = ss_thread_create((void *) taskWatch, pDevice);
if (thread_id == 0) {
  printf('cannot spawn taskWatch\n');
}
...

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fI(*thread_func)\fP Thread function to create. 
.br
\fIparam\fP a pointer to a VX_TASK_SPAWN structure for vxWorks and a void pointer for Unix and Windows 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
the new thread id or zero on error 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1991 of file system.c.
.PP
Referenced by device_driver(), and initialize_equipment().
.SS "\fBINT\fP ss_thread_kill (midas_thread_t thread_id)"Destroys the thread identified by the passed thread id. The thread id is returned by \fBss_thread_create()\fP on creation.
.PP
.PP
.nf
...
midas_thread_t thread_id = ss_thread_create((void *) taskWatch, pDevice);
if (thread_id == 0) {
  printf('cannot spawn taskWatch\n');
}
...
ss_thread_kill(thread_id);
...
.fi
.PP
 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIthread_id\fP the thread id of the thread to be killed. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
SS_SUCCESS if no error, else SS_NO_THREAD 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2064 of file system.c.
.PP
Referenced by device_driver().
.SS "\fBDWORD\fP ss_time ()"Returns the actual time in seconds since 1.1.1970 UTC. 
.PP
.nf
...
DWORD start, stop:
start = ss_time();
  ss_sleep(12000);
stop = ss_time();
printf('Operation took %1.3lf seconds\n',stop-start);
...

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Time in seconds 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2922 of file system.c.
.PP
Referenced by al_check(), al_trigger_alarm(), bm_compose_event(), bm_push_event(), cm_msg(), cm_synchronize(), cm_time(), cm_yield(), db_get_key_time(), db_set_data(), db_set_data_index(), db_set_link_data(), db_set_link_data_index(), db_set_value(), scheduler(), and send_event().
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Midas from the source code.
