.TH "RC_mhttpd_sc_page" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
RC_mhttpd_sc_page \- Slow Control page 
 
.br
.PP
.PP

.br
 
.SH "Introduction"
.PP
The Slow Control page refers to the specific display of a \fBSlow Control Equipment\fP (see \fBSlow Control System\fP). This is a special \fBEquipment page\fP that may be accessed from the \fBmain status page\fP by clicking on the \fBEquipment Hyperlink\fP. The Slow Control page will show a parameter table (such as those shown below). Parameters that are editable will be hyperlinked for parameter modification. This option is possible only if the parameter names have a particular \fBname\fP \fBsyntax\fP.
.SH "Name Syntax for Slow Control Page"
.PP
The name syntax is similar to that already described on the \fBEquipment Page\fP, where the Equipment variables are located in the /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Variables subtree with the matching information defined under the /Equipment/<equipment-name>/Settings subtree. Additinally, for a Slow Control Equipment each variable in the table may be \fBeditable\fP depending on the following rules :
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
If the variable name is defined under the 'Settings/' directory
.IP "  1." 6
as one of the following names, it will be editable by default:
.IP "    \(bu" 6
in a \fB'Demand'\fP array or
.IP "    \(bu" 6
in an \fB'Output'\fP array or
.IP "    \(bu" 6
as \fB'D_<var_name>'\fP 
.PP

.PP

.PP
.PP
.IP "1." 4
the variable is ALSO defined under the array'Settings/Editable[]'
.IP "  \(bu" 4
it will be editable.
.PP

.PP
.PP
This information will be combined to compose a table. 
.PP
.nf
[local:Default:S]/>cd Equipment/MSCB/Settings/
[local:Default:S]Settings>ls
[local:Default:S]Settings>ls
Names
                                Drift Voltage (KV)
                                Drift Current (uA)
                                uC Temperature (C)
DD
Offset
                                0
                                1
                                1
Gain
                                0
                                3
                                4
Editable                        Gain

.fi
.PP
.PP

.br

.br

.br
   Slow control Equipment page. 
.br

.br

.br
   
.br

.br

.br
.PP
The following is an example of a Slow Control Page from another experiment, showing a High Voltage system for two crates, with multiple \fBparameters\fP set up.
.PP

.br

.br

.br
   Slow control page for a High Voltage system. 
.br

.br

.br
   
.br

.br

.br
.PP

.br
.PP
.PP

.br
.PP
 
