.TH "RC_mhttpd_Activate" 3 "31 May 2012" "Version 2.3.0-0" "Midas" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
RC_mhttpd_Activate \- How to activate custom page(s) in the ODB 

.br
  
.br
 
.br
 
.SH "Introduction"
.PP
 In order to activate a custom page from the within the MIDAS web interface, the pages must be listed in the ODB under the optional /Custom  tree as described below. This applies to \fBexternal\fP and \fBinternal\fP custom pages, as explained below.
.PP
The /Custom tree must be created by the user, e.g. using \fBodbedit\fP 
.PP
.nf
odbedit
[local:midas:S] mkdir Custom

.fi
.PP
   
.SH "The /Custom ODB tree"
.PP
Features involving the /Custom tree is applicable only to \fBmhttpd\fP, and ignored by \fBodbedit\fP , which has no web capabilities.
.PP

.br
 The optional ODB /Custom tree may contain
.IP "\(bu" 2
links to \fBlocal\fP \fBexternal\fP custom web pages created by the user (see \fBbelow\fP for \fBremote\fP \fBexternal\fP pages)
.IP "\(bu" 2
HTML content of an \fBinternal\fP custom web page created by the user.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBimages\fP subtree (explained \fBlater\fP) used to specify images for custom pages
.PP
.PP
If keys are defined in this tree, except where noted \fBbelow\fP, the names of the keys will appear as custom-buttons in versions after \fBDec 2009\fP (or \fBcustom-links\fP in earlier versions) on the  mhttpd \fBMain Status page\fP. By clicking on one of these alias-buttons, the custom page will be visible in a new frame. 
.br
.SS "Keynames in the /Custom directory"
There are two characters that have special meaning if they are the \fBlast\fP character of the keyname:
.IP "\(bu" 2
The character \fB'&'\fP forces the page to be opened within the current frame. If this character is omitted, the page will be opened in a new frame (default).
.PP
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
The character \fB'!'\fP suppresses the link appearing on the main status page as a button (or link). This can be used to provide external webpages initially hidden from the user, such as code for pop-ups, or to access a file of Javascript functions needed by other custom pages.
.PP
.SS "Create a link to an external webpage"
If activating an external webpage, create a link for it in the ODB /Custom tree. For example, to create a link called Test& that will open a  local  \fBexternal\fP html file \fI /home/t2ktpc/online/custom/try.html \fP in a new frame: 
.PP
.nf
odbedit
[local:pol:S] mkdir Custom   <-- if /Custom is not present
[local:pol:S] cd Custom
[local:pol:S]/>create string Test&
String length [32]: 80
[local:pol:S]/>set Test& '/home/t2ktpc/online/custom/try.html'
[local:pol:S]/>ls -lt my_page
Test&                            STRING  1     80    >99d 0   RWD  /home/t2ktpc/online/custom/try.html

.fi
.PP
 
.br
  If the external HTML file is on a  remote  \fBwebserver\fP, the link should be placed under the \fB/Alias\fP tree rather than the /Custom tree, e.g.
.PP
.PP
.nf
[local:Default:Stopped]/>mkdir Alias  <-- if /Alias is not present
[local:Default:Stopped]/>cd alias
[local:Default:Stopped]/alias>create string WebDewpoint&
String length [32]: 256
[local:Default:Stopped]/alias>set WebDewpoint& 'http://www.decatur.de/javascript/dew/index.html'
.fi
.PP
.SS "Import an internal webpage"
If creating an internal webpage, it must be imported into the ODB using the \fBodbedit import command\fP. This example shows a file \fBmcustom.html\fP imported into the key /Custom/Test&.
.PP
.PP
.nf
  Tue> odbedit                      
  [local:midas:Stopped]/>mkdir Custom    <-- create /Custom if it does not exist
  [local:midas:Stopped]/>cd Custom/
  [local:midas:Stopped]/Custom>import mcustom.html   <-- import an html file
  Key name: Test&              
  [local:midas:Stopped]/Custom>
.fi
.PP
.PP
Example of an \fBInternal custom page\fP is shown here.
.SS "Examples of /Custom keys"
Here is an example of different keys in /Custom (all for \fBexternal\fP webpages) 
.PP
.nf
GasMain&                        STRING  1     80    >99d 0   RWD  /home/t2ktpc/online/custom_gas/GasMain.html
js_functions!                   STRING  1     64    >99d 0   RWD  /home/t2ktpc/online/custom_gas/custom_functions.js
Purifier!                       STRING  1     132   >99d 0   RWD  /home/t2ktpc/online/custom_gas/purifier.html
style0!                         STRING  1     45    >99d 0   RWD  /home/t2ktpc/online/custom_gas/t0.css                    

.fi
.PP
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
The first key GasMain& will produce an alias-link on the main status page called \fBGasMain\fP. Clicking this alias-link will load the file \fBGasMain.html\fP into the \fBsame\fP frame (the keyname ends in '&').
.PP
.PP
The other keys will not produce alias-links, since the keynames end with '!').
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
The key js_functions! is used to load some javascript functions needed by the html code of the other custom pages.
.IP "\(bu" 2
The key Purifier! is a custom page that can be loaded by clicking on a box in the custom page GasMain.
.IP "\(bu" 2
The key style0! contains a style sheet for use with all the html custom pages.
.PP
.PP
The output is shown in \fBthis example\fP.
.SH "How to replace the default Status page by a Custom Status page"
.PP
By using a keyname of Status (no '&') in the link to a custom page, that page will replace the Default main status page. Clicking on the \fBStatus\fP button on any of the sub-pages will return to the \fBCustom\fP status page.
.PP

.br
 See \fBCustom Status page\fP for more information and examples.
.PP

.br
 
.PP
 
