.TH "MTGListTree" 3 "Thu Apr 26 2012" "Roody" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
MTGListTree \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <MTGListTree.h>\fP
.SS "Public Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMTGListTree\fP (TGWindow *, UInt_t, UInt_t, UInt_t, ULong_t=GetWhitePixel())"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMTGListTree\fP (TGCanvas *, UInt_t, ULong_t=GetWhitePixel())"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Bool_t \fBHandleButton\fP (Event_t *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Bool_t \fBHandleKey\fP (Event_t *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBGetSelectedItems\fP (std::vector< TGListTreeItem * > &)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBGetSelectedItemsRecursive\fP (TGListTreeItem *, std::vector< TGListTreeItem * > &)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Int_t \fBMDeleteItem\fP (TGListTreeItem *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBMPDeleteChildren\fP (TGListTreeItem *)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Private Types"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef std::vector< TGListTreeItem * >::\fBiterator\fP \fBiterator\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Private Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBinit\fP ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Private Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "Bool_t \fBfControlPressed\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Friends"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTGListTreeItem\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Definition at line 17 of file MTGListTree.h.
.SH "Member Typedef Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "typedef std::vector<TGListTreeItem*>::\fBiterator\fP \fBMTGListTree::iterator\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 22 of file MTGListTree.h.
.SH "Constructor & Destructor Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "MTGListTree::MTGListTree (TGWindow *p, UInt_tw, UInt_th, UInt_toptions, ULong_tback = \fCGetWhitePixel()\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 42 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.SS "MTGListTree::MTGListTree (TGCanvas *p, UInt_toptions, ULong_tback = \fCGetWhitePixel()\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 47 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.SH "Member Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void MTGListTree::GetSelectedItems (std::vector< TGListTreeItem * > &items)"
.PP
Definition at line 146 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody::ProcessMessage().
.SS "void MTGListTree::GetSelectedItemsRecursive (TGListTreeItem *item, std::vector< TGListTreeItem * > &items)"
.PP
Definition at line 153 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by GetSelectedItems().
.SS "Bool_t MTGListTree::HandleButton (Event_t *event)"
.PP
Definition at line 91 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.SS "Bool_t MTGListTree::HandleKey (Event_t *event)"
.PP
Definition at line 164 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.SS "void MTGListTree::init ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Referenced by MTGListTree().
.SS "Int_t MTGListTree::MDeleteItem (TGListTreeItem *item)"
.PP
Definition at line 58 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody::CloseSource(), and Roody::DeleteGroup().
.SS "void MTGListTree::MPDeleteChildren (TGListTreeItem *item)"
.PP
Definition at line 71 of file MTGListTree.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by MDeleteItem().
.SH "Friends And Related Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "friend class TGListTreeItem\fC [friend]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 19 of file MTGListTree.h.
.PP
Referenced by GetSelectedItems(), GetSelectedItemsRecursive(), HandleButton(), MDeleteItem(), and MPDeleteChildren().
.SH "Member Data Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "Bool_t \fBMTGListTree::fControlPressed\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 23 of file MTGListTree.h.
.PP
Referenced by HandleButton(), and HandleKey().

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Roody from the source code.
