.TH "Roody" 3 "Thu Apr 26 2012" "Roody" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Roody \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <Roody.h>\fP
.SS "Public Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBRoody\fP (const TGWindow *p=NULL, UInt_t w=800, UInt_t h=800)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual \fB~Roody\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBRestoreFile\fP (const char *xmlfilename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBOpenFile\fP (const char *filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBConnectServer\fP (const char *server, bool complain=true)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBConnectNetDirectory\fP (const char *server, bool complain=true)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TObject * \fBGetObject\fP (const ObjectPath &src)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TObject * \fBRereadObject\fP (const ObjectPath &src)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Bool_t \fBProcessMessage\fP (Long_t, Long_t, Long_t)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBCloseWindow\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPopupPlot\fP (int, int)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPopupPlotFolder\fP (int, int)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPopupPlotSource\fP (int, int)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPopupTopGroup\fP (int, int)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPopupGroup\fP (int, int)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGListTreeItem * \fBPopupNewGroup\fP (int x, int y)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPeakFind\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSelectPad\fP (Int_t, Int_t, Int_t, TObject *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAxisLimits\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSetCut\fP (TObject *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBZoomOption\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBRefreshAll\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBRedrawCanvas\fP (TVirtualPad *pad=NULL, bool reread=false)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddObjectToVec\fP (\fBPadObjectVec\fP *padvec, TVirtualPad *pad, const ObjectPath *src, TObject *obj, const char *drawOpt)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddPadToVec\fP (\fBPadObjectVec\fP *padvec, TVirtualPad *pad, bool reread=false)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBClassDef\fP (\fBRoody\fP, 0)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Types"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBECommandMenuEntry\fP { \fBM_NEW_CANVAS\fP, \fBM_REDRAW_CANVAS\fP, \fBM_FILE_OPEN\fP, \fBM_FILE_ONLINE\fP, \fBM_FILE_NetDirectory\fP, \fBM_FILE_SAVE_DEFAULT\fP, \fBM_FILE_SAVE\fP, \fBM_FILE_RESTORE\fP, \fBM_FILE_EXIT\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_OFF\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_NOW\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_1SEC\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_3SEC\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_5SEC\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_10SEC\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_DIALOG\fP, \fBM_REOPEN_BUTTON\fP, \fBM_REFRESH_BUTTON\fP, \fBM_ZONES_11\fP, \fBM_ZONES_12\fP, \fBM_ZONES_13\fP, \fBM_ZONES_21\fP, \fBM_ZONES_22\fP, \fBM_ZONES_33\fP, \fBM_ZONES_44\fP, \fBM_ZONES_USER\fP, \fBM_ZONES_DIALOG\fP, \fBM_PLOT_NEW\fP, \fBM_PLOT_SAME\fP, \fBM_PLOT_REPLACE\fP, \fBM_PLOT_NEXT\fP, \fBC_PLOT_FOLDER\fP, \fBC_RESET_FOLDER\fP, \fBC_PLOT_NEW\fP, \fBC_PLOT_SAME\fP, \fBC_PLOT_REPLACE\fP, \fBC_PLOT_NEXT\fP, \fBC_RESET_OBJECT\fP, \fBC_REOPEN_SOURCE\fP, \fBC_CLOSE_SOURCE\fP, \fBC_NEW_GROUP\fP, \fBC_DELETE_GROUP\fP, \fBC_DRAW_GROUP\fP, \fBC_ADD_TO_GROUP\fP, \fBC_RESET_GROUP\fP, \fBM_RESET_ALL\fP, \fBM_HELP_ABOUT\fP, \fBM_HELP_CONTENTS\fP, \fBM_CURRENT_PAD\fP, \fBM_NEXT_PAD\fP, \fBM_NEW_PAD\fP }"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBEDrawDestination\fP { \fBD_PLOT_DEFAULT\fP =  -1, \fBD_PLOT_NEW\fP =  M_PLOT_NEW, \fBD_PLOT_SAME\fP =  M_PLOT_SAME, \fBD_PLOT_REPLACE\fP =  M_PLOT_REPLACE, \fBD_PLOT_NEXT\fP =  M_PLOT_NEXT }"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef std::vector< TGListTreeItem * > \fBItemVec\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMTGListTree\fP * \fBfContents\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGListTreeItem * \fBfTreeItemOnline\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGListTreeItem * \fBfTreeItemFiles\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGListTreeItem * \fBfTreeItemGroups\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Private Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBLayoutGUI\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBLayoutMenuBar\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBOpenFileDialog\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBOpenRootFile\fP (const char *filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBOpenHbookFile\fP (const char *filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBOpenNetDirectory\fP (const char *dest)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddDataSource\fP (DataSourceBase *source, \fBMTGListTree\fP *tree, TGListTreeItem *branch, bool reopen=false)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddPeakFind\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddAxisLimits\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddSetCut\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddZoomOption\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSetupZones\fP (int columns, int rows)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSetDestination\fP (\fBEDrawDestination\fP newdest)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPlotItems\fP (const \fBItemVec\fP *items, \fBEDrawDestination\fP dest)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBUpdateObjectClass\fP (TGListTreeItem *item, TObject *obj)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDrawItem\fP (TGListTreeItem *item, \fBEDrawDestination\fP dest=D_PLOT_DEFAULT)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDrawItemOnPad\fP (TGListTreeItem *item, TVirtualPad *dest, bool replace)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDrawItemsOnNewCanvas\fP (const char *title, const \fBItemVec\fP *items)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBGetZoneSetting\fP (int columns, int rows)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBStartUpdateTimer\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSetRefreshRate\fP (int newrefresh)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBOpenRefreshDialog\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBOpenZoneDialog\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBUncheckAllZones\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBCloseSource\fP (TGListTreeItem *item)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBReopenSource\fP (TGListTreeItem *item)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBGetFolderItems\fP (\fBItemVec\fP *items, TGListTreeItem *item)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGListTreeItem * \fBMakeNewGroup\fP (const char *groupname)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddToGroup\fP (TGListTreeItem *groupItem, \fBItemVec\fP *items)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDeleteGroup\fP (TGListTreeItem *groupItem)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDrawGroup\fP (TGListTreeItem *groupItem)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAddHistogramToGroup\fP (TGListTreeItem *groupItem, const char *name, TGListTreeItem *origItem)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBOpenRestoreDialog\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBOpenSaveDialog\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSaveFile\fP (char const *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSaveFilePadContents\fP (\fBRoodyXML\fP &xml, std::ofstream &output, std::string space, const \fBPadObjectVec\fP &contents)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBGetRunNumber\fP (char const *)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TCanvas * \fBMakeNewCanvas\fP (const char *title, int columns, int rows, int topx=0, int topy=0, int width=0, int height=0)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSetZonesUser\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBSetupZonesMenu\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBResetAll\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBResetMultiple\fP (const \fBItemVec\fP *items)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBResetItem\fP (TGListTreeItem *item)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TObject * \fBApplyCanvasLimits\fP (const CanvasLimits *limits, const ObjectPath *src, TObject *h)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBRestoreObjects\fP (\fBRoodyXML\fP *xml, TVirtualPad *pad, \fBPMXML_NODE\fP parent)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Private Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "TGPopupMenu * \fBfMenuRefresh\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGPopupMenu * \fBfMenuZones\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGPopupMenu * \fBfMenuPlot\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGPopupMenu * \fBfPopupMenu\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGStatusBar * \fBfStatusBar\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBEDrawDestination\fP \fBfDefaultDrawDestination\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBfUpdateTimerSec\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBfUpdatePause\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBfZoneColumns\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBfZoneRows\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::map< TVirtualPad *, int > \fBfCanvasColumns\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::map< TVirtualPad *, int > \fBfCanvasRows\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::vector< std::string > \fBfRootFiles\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::vector< std::string > \fBfHbookFiles\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::vector< std::string > \fBfOnlineFiles\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TTimer * \fBfUpdateTimer\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBItemVec\fP \fBfGroupFolders\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGPopupMenu * \fBfAddToGroupPopup\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBfXSave\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBfYSave\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Int_t \fBfCanvasCount\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::map< int, CanvasLimits * > \fBfCanvasLimits\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TCanvas * \fBfZoomCanvas\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGTextButton * \fBfReopenButton\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "TGTextButton * \fBfRefreshButton\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Private Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "static \fBTPeakFindPanel\fP * \fBfgPeakFindPanel\fP = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Definition at line 65 of file Roody.h.
.SH "Member Typedef Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "typedef std::vector<TGListTreeItem*> \fBRoody::ItemVec\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 182 of file Roody.h.
.SH "Member Enumeration Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "enum \fBRoody::ECommandMenuEntry\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIM_NEW_CANVAS \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REDRAW_CANVAS \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_OPEN \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_ONLINE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_NetDirectory \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_SAVE_DEFAULT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_SAVE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_RESTORE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_FILE_EXIT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_OFF \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_NOW \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_1SEC \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_3SEC \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_5SEC \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_10SEC \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_DIALOG \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REOPEN_BUTTON \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_REFRESH_BUTTON \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_11 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_12 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_13 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_21 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_22 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_33 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_44 \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_USER \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_ZONES_DIALOG \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_PLOT_NEW \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_PLOT_SAME \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_PLOT_REPLACE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_PLOT_NEXT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_PLOT_FOLDER \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_RESET_FOLDER \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_PLOT_NEW \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_PLOT_SAME \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_PLOT_REPLACE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_PLOT_NEXT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_RESET_OBJECT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_REOPEN_SOURCE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_CLOSE_SOURCE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_NEW_GROUP \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_DELETE_GROUP \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_DRAW_GROUP \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_ADD_TO_GROUP \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIC_RESET_GROUP \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_RESET_ALL \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_HELP_ABOUT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_HELP_CONTENTS \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_CURRENT_PAD \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_NEXT_PAD \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fIM_NEW_PAD \fP\fP

.PP
Definition at line 106 of file Roody.h.
.SS "enum \fBRoody::EDrawDestination\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fID_PLOT_DEFAULT \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fID_PLOT_NEW \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fID_PLOT_SAME \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fID_PLOT_REPLACE \fP\fP
.TP
\fB\fID_PLOT_NEXT \fP\fP

.PP
Definition at line 173 of file Roody.h.
.SH "Constructor & Destructor Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "Roody::Roody (const TGWindow *p = \fCNULL\fP, UInt_tw = \fC800\fP, UInt_th = \fC800\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 207 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "Roody::~Roody ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 740 of file Roody.cxx.
.SH "Member Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void Roody::AddAxisLimits ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 971 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody().
.SS "void Roody::AddDataSource (DataSourceBase *source, \fBMTGListTree\fP *tree, TGListTreeItem *branch, boolreopen = \fCfalse\fP)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2369 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ConnectServer(), OpenNetDirectory(), OpenRootFile(), and ReopenSource().
.SS "void Roody::AddHistogramToGroup (TGListTreeItem *groupItem, const char *name, TGListTreeItem *origItem)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2225 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by AddToGroup(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "void Roody::AddObjectToVec (\fBPadObjectVec\fP *padvec, TVirtualPad *pad, const ObjectPath *src, TObject *obj, const char *drawOpt)"
.PP
Definition at line 1102 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by AddPadToVec(), DrawItemOnPad(), and ZoomOption().
.SS "void Roody::AddPadToVec (\fBPadObjectVec\fP *padvec, TVirtualPad *pad, boolreread = \fCfalse\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 1171 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by RedrawCanvas(), and SetupZones().
.SS "void Roody::AddPeakFind ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1322 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody().
.SS "void Roody::AddSetCut ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 947 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody().
.SS "void Roody::AddToGroup (TGListTreeItem *groupItem, \fBItemVec\fP *items)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1636 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::AddZoomOption ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1266 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody().
.SS "TObject * Roody::ApplyCanvasLimits (const CanvasLimits *limits, const ObjectPath *src, TObject *h)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 995 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by AddObjectToVec().
.SS "void Roody::AxisLimits ()"
.PP
Definition at line 984 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "Roody::ClassDef (\fBRoody\fP, 0)"
.SS "void Roody::CloseSource (TGListTreeItem *item)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2254 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::CloseWindow ()"
.PP
Definition at line 2330 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::ConnectNetDirectory (const char *server, boolcomplain = \fCtrue\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 2711 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::ConnectServer (const char *server, boolcomplain = \fCtrue\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 2731 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "void Roody::DeleteGroup (TGListTreeItem *groupItem)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1646 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::DrawGroup (TGListTreeItem *groupItem)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1725 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::DrawItem (TGListTreeItem *item, \fBEDrawDestination\fPdest = \fCD_PLOT_DEFAULT\fP)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1422 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by PlotItems().
.SS "void Roody::DrawItemOnPad (TGListTreeItem *item, TVirtualPad *dest, boolreplace)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1444 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by DrawItem(), DrawItemsOnNewCanvas(), and RestoreObjects().
.SS "void Roody::DrawItemsOnNewCanvas (const char *title, const \fBItemVec\fP *items)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1705 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by DrawGroup(), and ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::GetFolderItems (\fBItemVec\fP *items, TGListTreeItem *item)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2274 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by DrawGroup(), ProcessMessage(), and SaveFile().
.SS "TObject * Roody::GetObject (const ObjectPath &src)"
.PP
Definition at line 125 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by AddPadToVec(), ApplyCanvasLimits(), DrawItemOnPad(), RereadObject(), SaveFilePadContents(), and ZoomOption().
.SS "std::string Roody::GetRunNumber (char const *filename)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2573 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "std::string Roody::GetZoneSetting (intcolumns, introws)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1344 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by SaveFile().
.SS "void Roody::LayoutGUI ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 752 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by Roody().
.SS "void Roody::LayoutMenuBar ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 870 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutGUI().
.SS "TCanvas * Roody::MakeNewCanvas (const char *title, intcolumns, introws, inttopx = \fC0\fP, inttopy = \fC0\fP, intwidth = \fC0\fP, intheight = \fC0\fP)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1660 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by DrawItem(), DrawItemsOnNewCanvas(), ProcessMessage(), RestoreFile(), and SetupZones().
.SS "TGListTreeItem * Roody::MakeNewGroup (const char *groupname)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1621 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by PopupNewGroup(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "bool Roody::OpenFile (const char *filename)"
.PP
Definition at line 2338 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenFileDialog(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "void Roody::OpenFileDialog ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2350 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "bool Roody::OpenHbookFile (const char *filename)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Referenced by OpenFile().
.SS "bool Roody::OpenNetDirectory (const char *dest)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2461 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ConnectNetDirectory().
.SS "void Roody::OpenRefreshDialog ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2834 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::OpenRestoreDialog ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2904 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "bool Roody::OpenRootFile (const char *filename)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2422 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenFile().
.SS "void Roody::OpenSaveDialog ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2884 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::OpenZoneDialog ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2845 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::PeakFind ()"
.PP
Definition at line 1522 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "void Roody::PlotItems (const \fBItemVec\fP *items, \fBEDrawDestination\fPdest)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2323 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::PopupGroup (intx, inty)"
.PP
Definition at line 1596 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "TGListTreeItem * Roody::PopupNewGroup (intx, inty)"
.PP
Definition at line 1607 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by AddToGroup(), and ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::PopupPlot (intx, inty)"
.PP
Definition at line 1530 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::PopupPlotFolder (intx, inty)"
.PP
Definition at line 1556 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::PopupPlotSource (intx, inty)"
.PP
Definition at line 1570 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::PopupTopGroup (intx, inty)"
.PP
Definition at line 1587 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "Bool_t Roody::ProcessMessage (Long_tmsg, Long_tparm1, Long_tparm2)"
.PP
Definition at line 1806 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "void Roody::RedrawCanvas (TVirtualPad *pad = \fCNULL\fP, boolreread = \fCfalse\fP)"
.PP
Definition at line 1219 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage(), and RefreshAll().
.SS "void Roody::RefreshAll ()"
.PP
Definition at line 2815 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage(), and ResetAll().
.SS "void Roody::ReopenSource (TGListTreeItem *item)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2235 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "TObject * Roody::RereadObject (const ObjectPath &src)"
.PP
Definition at line 175 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by AddPadToVec().
.SS "void Roody::ResetAll ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2287 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::ResetItem (TGListTreeItem *item)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2312 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ResetMultiple().
.SS "void Roody::ResetMultiple (const \fBItemVec\fP *items)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2306 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::RestoreFile (const char *xmlfilename)"
.PP
Definition at line 388 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenRestoreDialog().
.SS "void Roody::RestoreObjects (\fBRoodyXML\fP *xml, TVirtualPad *pad, \fBPMXML_NODE\fPparent)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 353 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by RestoreFile().
.SS "void Roody::SaveFile (char const *xmlFilename)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 632 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenSaveDialog(), and ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::SaveFilePadContents (\fBRoodyXML\fP &xml, std::ofstream &output, std::stringspace, const \fBPadObjectVec\fP &contents)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 608 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by SaveFile().
.SS "void Roody::SelectPad (Int_tev, Int_tx, Int_ty, TObject *obj)"
.PP
Definition at line 1415 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "void Roody::SetCut (TObject *o)"
.PP
Definition at line 956 of file Roody.cxx.
.SS "void Roody::SetDestination (\fBEDrawDestination\fPnewdest)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1335 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutMenuBar(), MakeNewCanvas(), ProcessMessage(), and SetupZones().
.SS "void Roody::SetRefreshRate (intnewrefresh)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1744 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenRefreshDialog(), ProcessMessage(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "void Roody::SetupZones (intcolumns, introws)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1351 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenZoneDialog(), and ProcessMessage().
.SS "void Roody::SetupZonesMenu ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 531 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by OpenZoneDialog(), ProcessMessage(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "void Roody::SetZonesUser ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 598 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by SetupZonesMenu().
.SS "void Roody::StartUpdateTimer ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2800 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by RefreshAll(), Roody(), and SetRefreshRate().
.SS "void Roody::UncheckAllZones ()\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 1794 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage(), and SetupZonesMenu().
.SS "void Roody::UpdateObjectClass (TGListTreeItem *item, TObject *obj)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 2590 of file Roody.cxx.
.PP
Referenced by DrawItemOnPad().
.SS "void Roody::ZoomOption ()"
.PP
Definition at line 1279 of file Roody.cxx.
.SH "Member Data Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "TGPopupMenu* \fBRoody::fAddToGroupPopup\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 217 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by Roody().
.SS "std::map<TVirtualPad*,int> \fBRoody::fCanvasColumns\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 206 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by MakeNewCanvas(), RedrawCanvas(), SaveFile(), and SetupZones().
.SS "Int_t \fBRoody::fCanvasCount\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 220 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by MakeNewCanvas(), and Roody().
.SS "std::map<int,CanvasLimits*> \fBRoody::fCanvasLimits\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 222 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by AddObjectToVec(), and AxisLimits().
.SS "std::map<TVirtualPad*,int> \fBRoody::fCanvasRows\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 207 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by MakeNewCanvas(), RedrawCanvas(), SaveFile(), and SetupZones().
.SS "\fBMTGListTree\fP* \fBRoody::fContents\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 184 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by AddHistogramToGroup(), CloseSource(), ConnectServer(), DeleteGroup(), LayoutGUI(), MakeNewGroup(), OpenNetDirectory(), OpenRootFile(), ProcessMessage(), ReopenSource(), RestoreFile(), and UpdateObjectClass().
.SS "\fBEDrawDestination\fP \fBRoody::fDefaultDrawDestination\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 198 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by DrawItem(), and SetDestination().
.SS "\fBTPeakFindPanel\fP * \fBRoody::fgPeakFindPanel\fP = 0\fC [static, private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 196 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by PeakFind().
.SS "\fBItemVec\fP \fBRoody::fGroupFolders\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 215 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by DeleteGroup(), MakeNewGroup(), PopupPlot(), ProcessMessage(), and SaveFile().
.SS "std::vector<std::string> \fBRoody::fHbookFiles\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 210 of file Roody.h.
.SS "TGPopupMenu* \fBRoody::fMenuPlot\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 192 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutMenuBar(), and SetDestination().
.SS "TGPopupMenu* \fBRoody::fMenuRefresh\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 190 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutMenuBar(), and SetRefreshRate().
.SS "TGPopupMenu* \fBRoody::fMenuZones\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 191 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutMenuBar(), ProcessMessage(), SetupZonesMenu(), SetZonesUser(), and UncheckAllZones().
.SS "std::vector<std::string> \fBRoody::fOnlineFiles\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 211 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by ConnectServer(), ResetAll(), and SaveFile().
.SS "TGPopupMenu* \fBRoody::fPopupMenu\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 193 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by PopupGroup(), PopupPlot(), PopupPlotFolder(), PopupPlotSource(), PopupTopGroup(), and Roody().
.SS "TGTextButton* \fBRoody::fRefreshButton\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 227 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutGUI(), and SetRefreshRate().
.SS "TGTextButton* \fBRoody::fReopenButton\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 226 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutGUI().
.SS "std::vector<std::string> \fBRoody::fRootFiles\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 209 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by OpenNetDirectory(), and ResetAll().
.SS "TGStatusBar* \fBRoody::fStatusBar\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 194 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by CloseSource(), ConnectServer(), GetObject(), LayoutGUI(), OpenFileDialog(), OpenRefreshDialog(), OpenRestoreDialog(), OpenSaveDialog(), OpenZoneDialog(), ProcessMessage(), ReopenSource(), RestoreFile(), Roody(), and SaveFile().
.SS "TGListTreeItem* \fBRoody::fTreeItemFiles\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 186 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutGUI(), OpenNetDirectory(), OpenRootFile(), RestoreFile(), and SaveFile().
.SS "TGListTreeItem* \fBRoody::fTreeItemGroups\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 187 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by LayoutGUI(), MakeNewGroup(), ProcessMessage(), and RestoreFile().
.SS "TGListTreeItem* \fBRoody::fTreeItemOnline\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 185 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by ConnectServer(), and LayoutGUI().
.SS "bool \fBRoody::fUpdatePause\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 201 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage(), Roody(), SetRefreshRate(), and StartUpdateTimer().
.SS "TTimer* \fBRoody::fUpdateTimer\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 213 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by CloseWindow(), RefreshAll(), Roody(), StartUpdateTimer(), and ~Roody().
.SS "int \fBRoody::fUpdateTimerSec\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 200 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by ProcessMessage(), Roody(), SaveFile(), SetRefreshRate(), and StartUpdateTimer().
.SS "int \fBRoody::fXSave\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 218 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by PopupPlot(), PopupPlotFolder(), and PopupPlotSource().
.SS "int \fBRoody::fYSave\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 218 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by PopupPlot(), PopupPlotFolder(), and PopupPlotSource().
.SS "int \fBRoody::fZoneColumns\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 203 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by DrawItem(), ProcessMessage(), RestoreFile(), Roody(), SaveFile(), SetupZones(), SetupZonesMenu(), and SetZonesUser().
.SS "int \fBRoody::fZoneRows\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 204 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by DrawItem(), ProcessMessage(), RestoreFile(), Roody(), SaveFile(), SetupZones(), SetupZonesMenu(), and SetZonesUser().
.SS "TCanvas* \fBRoody::fZoomCanvas\fP\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Definition at line 224 of file Roody.h.
.PP
Referenced by Roody(), and ZoomOption().

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Roody from the source code.
